The human heart is a muscle
that acts as a pump.
It contracts and relaxes
each time it beats.
The heart has 4 compartments
or chambers.
The upper chambers are called Atria
and the lower chambers are called Ventricles.
These chambers fill with blood
which is then pumped throughout
the body to supply nourishment
The heart has 4 thin, flexible valves
which open and close to control
the flow of blood with each heartbeat.
The 4 valves are the Tricuspid valve,
the Pulmonic valve,
the Mitral valve,
and the Aortic valve.
The Mitral valve is made of
2 tissue flaps called leaflets
and is located between the Atrium
and Ventricle on the left side of the heart
Mitral valve prolapse
is an abnormal bulging of
the Mitral valve when the heart contracts.
When one or both of the leaflets
bulge backwards into the Atrium,
the valve may not always close completely.
When it does not close all the way
the Mitral valve allows
small amounts of blood flow
backward in your heart
and is known as regurgitation.